Hey, folks, in this video, we are going to talk about software and operating system.

Operating system is a software as well.

And software is anything that you cannot touch which runs inside of your computer as compared to hardware

is something you could feel or touch.

Software is a written set of instructions that tells your computer what to do.

Operating system, which is also a software.

It runs on top of your hardware.

Without the operating system, your hardware is just like a piece of brick or a piece of metal because

it cannot function without an operating system.

The operating system supports computer functions such as scheduling tasks, executing application and

controlling peripherals.

So when you have the operating system, your operating system is actually controlling your devices.

If you want to print something through your application, let's say you have a Microsoft word, you

want to print your document, then at that specific instruction goes to operating system and operating

system sends it to the printer to print.

Let's take a look at a few examples of our operating systems.

Well, number one is Windows.

Windows has the most market share in user environment.

Then we have Mac.

A lot of people uses Mac as well.

Then we have Linux.

Linux is mostly used in the corporate world and many times people use it as a command line.

It also have a graphical user interface which is called gooey, just like Windows.

But again, most of the people use it without it, so it could function a lot faster.

Another operating system you have is Unix, which runs Solaris or X, and I'm sure there are many other

operating system that are out there I don't want to list, but these are the main four operating systems

that we could actually relate to.

Then let's look at the example of mobile operating system that's running in your cell phone.

Number one is iPhone.

It runs iOS operating system.

And the second one is Samsung, which runs Android Operating System.

Okay.

So let's understand how our operating system works through this image.

Here we have this image where the bottom layer you see it's a hardware on top of it.

We have our operating system running.

Then on top of the operating system, we have our application programs running and who are using those

applications.

You you are the users who are actually accessing that application.

Now, to make it more simpler, let's put down our hardware, which is our computer on top of our computer.

We have our operating system and we take an example of our Windows operating system.

When you start up your computer, the operating system starts up and then you might need to use an application.

And in this example, we picked Microsoft Excel.

You probably need to use Microsoft Word or you maybe you need to use Firefox browser or maybe other

applications.

And now who are using these applications, that is you.

That's how the actual sequence of operation works and the operating system, if you could see it's sitting

in the middle between the application and hardware, taking the instruction from you and the applications

and handing it over to the hardware.