Hey, folks, let's talk about the other components.

We have already covered the three basic or computer components.

Number one is the hardware.

Second one is the operating system, also referred to as a software.

And the third one is the applications.

So now let's say if you have a hardware, your laptop or your desktop and it has a Windows operating

system installed on it, and then you need to use Microsoft Word and that's the application you can

work on it, save your documents on the computer works fine.

Now what if you want to perform different functions?

For example, one of the things that you want to do is you write up the application or you open a Microsoft

word, you type up an application or letter and you want to send to your friend.

That friend is using a different computer.

So definitely that's where the other components come in and that components is the networking.

So you do need a network between the computers to talk to other computers.

So in this lecture we are going to cover the networking piece.

So the very first thing we have to see here is your computer.

Your computer has, again, hardware software, which is the operating system and the applications that

you need to perform certain functions.

Now, what if you want to send or communicate to another user that is on a different computer?

Now let's see if that computer is within the same location.

Then you could simply use a crossover cable to connect one computer to another and you could communicate.

Now, what if you have multiple computers within the same location?

Then what you could do is you could put in a switch, a small switch with the port requirement that

you have depending on the computers you have.

So you could connect your computer to that little switch or the cat5 cable.

Now, what is a Cat5 cable?

That is something we will cover later on.

And what is or how many little cables inside of a cat cable or cat6 cable?

We'll cover that later.

So anyway, for now, you will see you will connect to that switch.

And from that switch you see these multiple ports.

Then you could attach those cables to these different computers and that's how you could talk to these

different computers.

Now comes a question What if there is a computer out on the Internet or it's somewhere in another location

or another part of the world and you want to talk to that computer, then of course, you need a modem

or your ISP or your service provider.

So in my location, I have a service provider like Cablevision or Optimum or FiOS.

So I'm sure whichever the part of the world you are, your Internet provider is the provider who has

provided you the modem that allows you to talk to outside world.

So you connect your computer through the Cat5 cable again to that modem and that that modem is connected

to the outside world and that's how you communicate.

But of course, if you need to communicate to the outside world, you need or your computer needs an

IP address, IP address stands for Internet protocol, and that is something we will cover in the later

lectures.

So that's pretty much another component of networking.

If you want two computers to talk to each other, I'll talk to you in the next lecture.