Hey, folks, as we are going through the components, let's not forget the storage.

Storage is an extended component of it, and it does play a very vital role when it comes to storing

data.

So let's take a look at what storage is.

And I'm sure you guys all know storage is a place in your computer where data is saved.

We know that when you shut down your computer, all that data is saved.

And when you turn the computer back on, you could retrieve that data from that disk.

So it can be simple hard drive or solid state drive inside of a computer, depending on what kind of

computer or what kind of hard drive that you purchase.

Now, storage can be internal or external.

Now internal, you know, it's inside of a computer, not external.

That's where this becomes an important factor or an important component in it is to have external storage

or array of storage that we will discuss in a few minutes.

Now in it, world storage is another extended component, which is a collection of multiple redundant

disks, also referred to as disk library or disk array that is used mostly in corporate world to store

large volume of data.

Yes.

So let's take an example to clarify or simplified a lot easier way.

So in your home environment, you have your desktop or your laptop and your laptop.

You all know we have a disk inside of that laptop, that disk we use.

We create our data, we write our data, and then we save our data in that disk.

Now what happens if this disk dies or crashes or gets corrupted?

Then of course you lose all your data from the disk.

And I'm sure someone probably have experienced this kind of issue.

I have actually experienced this issue too, in the past where I have saved all my data on that one

disk and my computer crashed or disk crashed and I lost all the data.

So of course that is something you could afford on the home.

But when we are talking about the corporate environment, you do not afford to lose the data, the corporate

level data.

So in corporate world, what they do is they actually buy these big shelves, big racks, and each rack,

they have multiple servers, they look like a server, but they have inside of these servers, they

have actually arrays of disks.

So each of that has disk disk and many, many disks.

And these disks are set up in a different raid.

What is a raid?

That is something we'll talk about later, definitely.

But raid and simple in simple words is basically a redundancy of the disks.

In case you lose one disk in this array, then you have other disk where you could get or retrieve your

data.

So this way, no matter what happens or you lose one or 2 or 3 disks or as many disks, depending on

how you set it up, that corporate storage array, you will be able to retrieve that data.

Now that corporate storage can be accessed either through San or Nas.

What are those terms?

I will cover that in the later lecture.

And I'm telling you, you do really need to know these things if you are getting into it world.

So hope you understand what storage is on the corporate side and we will cover much in detail in the

later lecture.

See you in the next lecture.