Hello, everyone.

In this lecture we are going to talk about cloud.

I'm sure you have heard this word cloud or cloud, Cloud storage, cloud computing, cloud networking

so many times.

But maybe you are having a hard time understanding what really cloud means and what kind of services

we could get from the cloud.

In this lecture, I am going to make sure that I explain it to you.

The cloud and its purpose and features in a very simple language.

That is why recently cloud has become also an extended component of it, because a lot of companies

are moving to cloud and therefore you need to understand the concept behind the cloud.

All right, let's look at the definition of cloud first.

Cloud computing is the on demand availability of computer system resources, especially data storage

and computing power.

Without direct active management by the user.

Now pay attention without direct active management by the user.

The term is generally used to describe data centers available to many users over the internet.

Like there are data centers somewhere, but those data centers are available to you through the Internet.

Now, for those people who do not know what a data center is, a data center is where all the companies

have their IT resources set up, like in a shelf.

All the computers are there, all their hardware gear, all their networking gear, actually, and a

dedicated place.

And that place is called Data Center.

Now let's go into details of defining how we could differentiate cloud from a regular data center.

So in our regular data center, for example, you work for a company, ABC, and you work for the IT

department and they have their data center in their data center.

Of course, you have servers and those server, the hardwares are actually managed by maybe the data

center technician or hardware technicians.

Then on top of those servers we have the operating systems running.

Those operating systems are managed by system administrators in your company.

And then there are applications running on that operating system like Oracle or many other applications,

depending on the requirement of your business.

Of course, for those applications, you need the users who manage those applications.

Then also in the same data centers, you have networking gear like, you know, firewalls or routers

and switches.

Now if you I'm most likely you do have them in your data centers.

And then what do you need?

You need people like network administrators or security administrators to manage those network devices

or configure them for servers to communicate.

Also, if you are running application, I'm sure you want to put them on a storage that is redundant.

So you need external storage attached to your server and then you have the storage.

What do you need?

You need people like storage administrators to manage those storage arrays.

Now you see, you have to hire so many people in your IT department to actually get the application

working for you.

Now comes the cloud.

The cloud companies came up with this concept of cloud in the cloud.

They have just the same data center like you have for your company, but you don't know where that data

center is.

Maybe it's somewhere in the world that you don't know and you really don't need to know where that is.

All you need to access in that cloud.

Technology companies who actually provide these cloud technologies, they already have in-house people,

the administrators like storage network system administrators who actually manage the servers, the

operating system, the network, the storage and everything.

They do everything for you.

All you have to do is manage your application.

You will access your application from those servers and you will only need those users to manage those

applications.

That is the main difference.

And in very simple words, the difference between the actual physical data centers that you have been

working on with your company and anything on the cloud.

And some of the examples I give you cloud is Azure Cloud, VMware Cloud, Amazon Cloud, one of the

biggest one.

We will talk about clouds in a later lectures.

Also, I will go through the difference between what are the difference between private cloud, public

cloud and some of the more details in the later lectures.

But for now I am sure you got a good gist of what a cloud is.

And if someone is asking you to explain cloud, I'm sure you could give them the same example to explain

what a cloud is.