Hello, everyone.

Let's take a look at virtualization.

What is virtualization?

Before we get into explaining the concept of virtualization, let's take a look and understand of how

physical system configuration works.

So in a regular world, as you can see, there is a physical server.

A physical server could be like a Dell or HP or any of those manufacturers that build a physical server

on that physical server.

What do you do when you get that physical server?

You actually install an operating system on top of it, and that operating system could be Windows,

could be Linux or any of the operating system of your choice, right?

Then what happens?

You install the operating system and then on top of that operating system, you run your applications.

Those applications are, for example, Excel word in in in Windows World, in Linux world.

You run like a DNS application, NTP application in a regular applications where rarely enterprise level

application like ERP, SAP, PeopleSoft, all of those applications run on those application on on that

platform or the operating system is.

So this is how you see an ideal or an a regular world, how the layout works.

Now what's the problem with this?

The problem with this is you have a physical server.

The physical server has 16 gig of Ram and four CPU and then you install operating system on top of it.

Operating system only needs four gig of Ram and two CPU to run and then you install an application on

top of it.

And that application only needed two gig of Ram and one CPU for that application.

What happens then?

Then you have eight gig of Ram and two CPU that are wasted.

Yes, resources are underutilized.

That's why the virtualization was born.

People thought they sat down.

They said, You know what, we have this physical server with so much resources.

We only run one operating system and one application and everything else is wasted.

We got to come up with a better solution.

So now let's look at the virtualization.

When virtualization came into being, then what happened?

What happened was there is a physical server same way running Dell on HP, which whoever the manufacturer

is, then you install a virtualization layer on top of it, a virtualization layer from anywhere like

from VMware, from Oracle virtualization.

Then you install operating systems on it.

So you could install two, three, four, how many operating system you can depending on the on the

resources that you have on the physical system.

And then on top of those operating systems, you have the application individually run on each of that

operating system.

Now what's the advantage?

Let's look at the advantage.

That's a physical server.

Again, going back to 16 gig of memory and four CPU.

You install a virtualization layer which takes up all your CPU memory and CPU.

Perfect.

Then that operating systems you have then applications.

Each of that operating system application has four gig and one CPU.

So each is each of that operating system has given all the resources.

What happens then?

All resources are fully utilized, not wasted.

See how how we could take the full advantage of all those resources.

So again, one more thing.

Remember those days when you have one physical server and one operating system and then people came

up with another idea of, you know what, split the disk in half and let's do dual dual boot.

So one of the partition would run, let's say Linux, and one partition would run Windows.

But the problem was with that is you could run only one operating system at a time in virtualization.

This is the beauty of the virtualization.

You don't have to have one operating system run at one given time.

You could run both or 3 or 4 operating systems at all times, all at the same time.

That's why the virtualization is so important and so beneficial.

Again, in layman's term, virtualization is something is really not real, but it is actually real.

It is utilizing the system resources and sharing those system resources among all the operating system

that runs on that physical server.