Hey, everyone, in this lecture, we are going to talk about the database.

Database is another component of it or computers.

So before we understand what database is, let's separate data from the base.

So what is a data?

Well, data is a collection of facts such as numbers, words, measurements, observations, or just

description of things.

For example, your name, age, height, weight, etcetera are some data related to you.

A picture image file, pdf, etcetera can also be considered as data.

So now what is the base?

Base is something like a system, a foundation or a hub or a central location where all the data come

together.

So now let's look at the database definition.

A database is an organized and systematic collection of data, generally stored and accessed electronically

from a computer system.

Databases make data management a lot easier.

Now comes the question is data can be stored in a spreadsheet or a text document as well.

So why we need a database?

Well, that's a good question.

Like we use spreadsheets or we have a text document.

We could put our name, our age and all that information into those documents.

So why do we really need the database compared to those regular flat files?

Well, database store information more efficiently.

Databases can handle volumes of information that would be unmanageable in a spreadsheet.

Spreadsheet have record limitations, whereas databases do not compare to databases.

Spreadsheet can require a large amount of hard drive space for data storage.

Whereas in databases it takes a lot less space on your on your storage.

Also in database, joining records is a lot easier than compared to text or spreadsheet.

So let's say if you have a spreadsheet that only tells you the age and let's say some information,

date of birth of a user in another spreadsheet, there is names and the address of that user.

So sometimes when you want to get all that data in one line or in one record, so combining those two

spreadsheets, it's a lot harder than compared to running some join SQL statements to combine that record.

So that's why we have database.

The pulling the database or data out of database is a lot easier than compared to these simple files.