Hello again.

In this video we are going to look at our CPU, a CPU.

We know it's a brain of our computer.

We're going to open up our computer and we're going to see how a CPU looks like, how we could replace

it and where exactly it can be found on your motherboard.

I am using my same HP computer and I'm going to turn this around and zoom in.

So this way you will have a better look inside of my computer.

Okay, so if you look at this computer, you're going to notice or if you open up your own computer,

you're going to notice anything that is a little bigger.

And it is looks metallic more and it has a fan attached to it.

This is not a CPU.

A lot of people confuse that with the CPU.

It's basically a fan which actually sits on top of your CPU to make your computer cool, so you would

have to remove this.

There are usually screws on top and those screws actually go all the way in to your motherboard.

You have to unscrew it again before you touch anything.

Make sure you wear your static band.

You make sure your your power cable is unplugged.

So I have already loosened up these screws.

So one screw is still holding on, so I'm going to unscrew this.

Okay.

You see, once I unscrew it, this thing comes off.

And if you turn it around, see this metal piece right here?

This actually sits on top of our chip, which is the CPU.

And it has this little fan right here, which keeps your computer cool.

And it has this wire attached to your motherboard.

If I take this wire out, it's now going to run.

Of course, that's where it's getting its electricity.

Okay.

Anyway, let me put this right here and let's go and look at our CPU.

Okay.

So let's zoom in a little more.

So as you notice, I have two sockets in my computer.

One socket is right here, which has no CPU chip and the other socket is right here, which actually

has one CPU.

So my computer only has one CPU and I do have the option to upgrade to two CPU if I want to.

So let's first look at the one that does not have a CPU.

It has this little handle right here and you have to push this handle back so it could open up.

And this thing has a little door that you could slide on the left.

And you pull this opening, pull this plastic piece out.

You see, this is just an insert, just a plastic placeholder.

So as you open this, you're going to see all those little chips up here.

And the circuits actually, that's where you actually put in your CPU.

And then once it's installed, you close the door again and you close that little handle to keep it

tight against the motherboard.

Now, coming to the one that we have a CPU, let's open up the same way.

Okay, let's open the door and let's take our CPU out.

See, right here, this is actually the CPU and mine is a single core CPU.

So this is how it looks like.

And you see it has this plastic thing or a paper smudges on top.

This is where our CPUs sorry, our fan sits on to keep it cool.

To install it or to replace it Again, this one has a little guide.

These grooves here, these little grooves right up here and at the bottom.

This will allow you to put them in to the right place without incorrectly inserting this way or that

way.

So let's put them in.

Okay.

Close the door.

And put the handle back on the arm it has, which holds the CPU tight.

Then you could simply put the fan back on.

By the way, when you actually going to buy a new CPU, you'll have to get that fan.

Most likely it will come with the fan.

If you are putting a whole new CPU on the socket right here.

Anyway, this is all about the CPU.

Again, please remember CPU is the brain of the computer.

It has to.

It performs one of the main functions on your computer.

And this video was to show you how we could replace or find a CPU in our computer.

All right.

See you in the next lecture.