Hello.

In this video we are going to talk about the motherboard of a computer.

The motherboard is the backbone that ties the computer's components together at one spot and allows

them to talk to each other.

It is the main circuit board inside of a computer.

So if you look at on the right hand side, the picture of a motherboard, you will see it's like a flat

surface which has all the transistors.

It has the memory slots, it has the CPU sockets and all the devices that we connect on top of it.

It has the slots for all of those.

So motherboard kind of like brings everybody together.

So it connects the CPU ram hard drive, optical drive, video card, sound card and many other internal

components.

It also provides you to attach external components to the computer as well.

Now the motherboard is also responsible to distribute power to the various components of the computer.

You could connect the power to the motherboard and that then the motherboard is responsibility to distribute

that power to all the other elements inside of the computer.

It is also referred to as main board or main circuit board system board logic board.

But overall, most of the time people referred or the technician referred it to as the motherboard.

Here are a few popular manufacturers that actually manufacture these motherboards.

Number one is Intel, then Asus Aopen abit.

Biostar Gigabyte and MSI.

There might be a few other manufacturers, but these are the main ones who have the most market share

in manufacturing these motherboards.

All right.

So now we're going to open up our computer and we will take a look together how motherboard is laid

out on a computer and how it functions in terms of bringing all these parts together.

Okay.

It's time again to open up our computer and find out where that motherboard is.

By the way, I already have my strap and right here and I'm going to go a little zoom in.

Okay.

And move this here so you will have a better look of what is inside of the computer.

All right.

So right here, all the way in the back of the computer, this entire board, which is in my case,

is blue.

And most of the time it is blue.

The motherboard, this entire board in the back is the motherboard, which is the backbone of our computer.

And if you look closely, every inside component of our computer is attached on that motherboard.

So motherboard is the one that you could say allows the communication, the traffic for one component

to another.

It's like a highway.

So right here we have the CPU.

We covered that already that is sitting on top of our motherboard.

The memory, the dimm slots are also on top of the motherboard.

We have our disks right here attached to the motherboard.

These are our cards that are sitting on the expansion PCI slots right here that are also sitting on

the motherboard.

Then we have the fans right here.

We have our power supply at the bottom right here.

And there are certain circuits and transistors that are on the motherboard anyway.

So there might be a chance, if you're getting into the IT job, most likely an IT technician job or

a hardware support job, then you might have to replace the motherboard or faulty motherboard.

Of course.

Then what you have to do is basically take out every piece that is attached to this motherboard and

then you will replace this entire motherboard.

I know it's not that it doesn't look that easy, but it is part of the job.

And once you replace it and you once you put everything back, back on the motherboard, then your computer

should be back in operational.

I'll see you in the next lecture.