Hello, boys and girls.

And welcome back.

In this video, we are going to cover the external components of a computer.

I am sure many of you already know this.

What are the things that are attached to your computer?

But we will take a quick moment to go over this lecture.

So we have our computer and very first thing that we usually see attached to this computer is a monitor.

And monitor is the place where we will see exactly what's going on on the computer.

Then we execute those commands, certain things that we wanted to run on the computer through our keyboard

and mouse.

These devices are the input devices that actually goes to the computer, tell the computer what to do,

and then once the computer finish executing it, it throws that out on our monitor to see or verify

it.

Other type of input and output device that we have that we attached to our computer is the printer.

So if you want to print a document, we could send that command or that instructions through our keyboard

or mouse to our printer printer will print that document.

Similarly, if you wanted to scan a copy of a document and we wanted to have a copy of that scan saved

on our computer, that's going to be input coming in to the computer file.

And also it has other functionality like scanner as well and photocopy and other stuff.

Then there is another outside external component that is a webcam that's mostly used nowadays.

A lot of people work virtually, so I'm sure every one of you have a virtual camera, a webcam, sorry,

that you attach to your computer through USB and it actually captures your video.

Then headphone.

If you are using your computer heavily to talk to people, then you you would need a headphone with

a mic.

Then a lot of people who have less disk space on their computer, internal hard drive, then they attach

an external disk drive and from some speakers, if you are not satisfied with the quality or how high

your computer's speakers go, then you could attach an external speakers to your computer.

And by the way, these external components of a computer are also called computer peripherals.

So if someone is asking you, Hey, do you have this computer peripheral, please make sure they are

telling you that this is a computer component that's outside of your computer.