Hello and welcome back.

Do you guys know the computer was built based on the comparison of a human body?

Yes.

Most of the things that we see in the computer are actually derived from our human functionality.

The internal parts of our body.

So let's take a quick look at what are the comparison or differences that we have in our body and to

our computer.

So right here we have a human body, and this is a regular computer.

The very first common organs that we have between a human body and a computer is a long term memory.

And in our head, the long term memory.

And that is equal to a hard disk drive in a computer that retains a lot of information and it retains

for a very long time.

Then comes in the short term memory in our head again and in computers.

We relate that to the Ram, which is a random access memory, and it keeps that information.

As long as the computer is running, then the brain.

Our brain is the main or critical part of our body that does a lot of computation calculation analysis.

So same thing like that.

The CPU is the brain of the computer.

All right.

Moving on.

The soul.

Our body is basically dead or is nothing without a soul.

The soul that we have inside.

So as soon as that soul leaves our body, we are dead.

So just like that, the operating system that is running on the computer or installed on a hard disk

that functions as a soul, which provides instructions to all the different parts of our body, then

we have the backbone, which is the motherboard in our computer and the function of our backbone is

to provide a mean of transportation, to communicate to the other components of our body or other body

organs.

Just like that.

In the computers, the motherboard is used to communicate to all the components inside of the computer

and then there is a heart.

Now a lot of people think, Ah, take heart as a CPU, but it's not really a CPU.

A heart is something that pumps the blood in your entire body.

And in this case, in computer, you have to have that electric power in your computer so it could function

and it could pass that electric or that power to other parts of the computer.

All right.

So then we have the body, the body which encapsulates or encase our internal organs.

And in computer, we call it chassis.

And a chassis is the one that actually has all the computer components inside of it.

Okay, Moving on.

Let's look at some of the sensors that we have.

Five senses of human and we know it's a sight.

I mean, we use our eyes for that sense.

Then we have sound or hearing and we use our ears.

Then we have touch.

And any time we touch either from our feet, from our hands or from any part from our body, that is

a sense.

And we could feel that something is being touched.

Then the smell, how we could smell, if it is something good, food or the smell of roses is through

our nose.

And then the taste.

The taste is that comes from the tongue.

Every time we eat something, we know how good a food taste.

If something tastes bad, we spit it out.

So these are the main five senses that we have in human body.

Now, comparing to the computer, the sight or the eyes of a computer can be a keyboard, but because

you pass the instructions, type the instructions on a keyboard and passes on to your computer, or

you have a webcam, your webcam sees the person or webcam sees the instructions and it pass it down

to the operating system, and operating system passes it down to the CPU or memory and so on.

Just like that, we also have sensors.

Sensors are the ones that actually kicks a computer or activates certain functionality of a computer.

So that is also considered as part of a sight sense for a computer.

Then comes the sound or ears.

What are the sound or ears of a computer?

Well, we have a headset that has a mic or an individual mic that we could actually talk to.

Nowadays, what are the ears of modern computer?

Well, we have Siri.

We have Alexa from Amazon, we have Google.

So these are all the things when we when we talk to these devices, we says, hey, Alexa, what's the

temperature today?

Alexa is a tiny device that's listening to instruction.

As soon as you say, Hey, Alexa, so that is pass it down to its memory and to its CPU to process it.

So that's the newer sense that I would say in a computer and we have touch for the touch.

We have a mouse, we use mouse to move around our cursor.

We also have a touch screen we could use to point.

We could also use a pen, a touch pen.

So these are the different peripherals that are available to us as that performs the function of a touch.

Then comes in nose.

Sorry, smell and taste.

These two are yet to be discovered, but some people say that the artificial intelligence or the virtual

reality are the ones that actually going to take over these two senses and the computer will become

pretty much the same.

We'll have all five senses that we have in a human body.

So anyway, this is the lecture I wanted to cover, so you will know and you could compare ourselves

what's inside of our body to a computer.

So when you are troubleshooting or when you are trying to explain something in layman's terms, you

will know how an each computer component works as compared to a human body.