Hello, ladies and gentlemen.

In this video, we're going to talk about the most common display interfaces or cables that are used

to connect your computer to a monitor.

There are six display interfaces that we are going to talk about.

That's the most common one.

There are a lot more, I'm sure, but the ones that you should really need to know that concerns you

for this course are as follow.

The first one is VGA and then HDMI, DVI, DisplayPort, USB-C, Dash AC and Thunderbolt port or cable.

That will cover them one by one.

So the very first one will go away is the VGA.

VGA stands for video graphics array.

It is an analog interface between a PC and a monitor that was widely used prior to DVI, HDMI and DisplayPort.

VGA was introduced on the IBM PSA Dash two platform in 1987.

It was a common to see VGA connectors on televisions, laptop computer monitors, projectors and other

devices.

VGA port or cable only carries visual meaning.

VIDEO Another source needs to be connected for audio signals.

Yes, that one cable of the VGA that you see does not carry audio with it.

You would have to connect separate cable for it.

So here is the port that you, I'm sure, very familiar with and have seen with many of the computer

that are older computers that comes with this type of port.

Now this port is a 15 pin female sub port.

That's what it's called.

It has 15 pin holds.

The shape ensures that VGA cables will only fit one way round, and it is often colored blue or black.

Yes, so you're not going to make a mistake and you're not going to bend the pen.

If the first are rounded or D-shaped is not fitting on the port correctly.

Now, as for the port, sorry for the cable, though.

See right here.

The cable is also a 15 pin mailed support.

These one are the actual pens that goes inside the hold off, the support, the computer unit or your

PC, and the monitor bolts should have female ports in order to use this cable.

Now, once again, this cable only carry video and does not carry audio.

HDMI HDMI stands for high definition multimedia interface and is the most frequently used high definition

signal for transferring both HD audio and video over a single cable.

The HDMI is mostly found on TVs, video projectors, PC monitors, DVD, Blu ray, Ultra HD players,

cable satellite boxes and so many other devices.

I am sure you pick up any device in your home, and most likely you will find the HDMI port on it.

HDMI is a much better than VGA.

For some reason, and one of them is not only is HDMI cable capable of transferring more data, it also

carries audio.

Yes, with VGA.

That's not possible.

You got to have a second cable now.

This is a how the port looks like on your device.

And here is the cable.

Both ends are the same.

It doesn't matter which end goes on, which device, then comes mini and micro HDMI.

There are three types of HDMI standard is called Type-A, which we have already talked about.

Many is called Type-C HDMI.

Mostly found on cameras, camcorders and tablets.

And then micro, which is a lot smaller than standard and many.

And that is Type D mostly found on compact mobile devices such as smartphones and looking at the picture

of the ports.

The middle one is this type, a standard port.

The top one, as many end up bottom one is micro HDMI, and these are the different cables that you

would need to connect from on all these different ports.

Now, probably you have a regular port on your device and on the other end of the device, you have

a smaller port.

For that, you could use adapter, a connect adapter, which could translate from smaller to the standard

types.

Moving on to DVI stands for digital visual interface.

It is a video display interface developed by Digital Display Working Group and Didi WG.

It is used to connect a video source such as a video display controller to a display device such as

a computer monitor.

It was developed with the intention of creating an industry standard for the transfer of digital video

content.

DVR connection is starting to die out now because newer technology has taken over, such as HDMI digital

port that will cover later on.

Although it is still on every graphic graphics card, the video signal is basically the same as HDMI

just without the audio same problem.

Just like VGA, single link divide connectors have 19 pence and dual link DVD connectors have twenty

five pins.

Of course, the more depends the higher band and the resolution, and this is how HD DVD connectors

look like.

And these are the cables.

Then, just like HDMI, it has many and micro devices, ports and cables as well.

Three types standard many and micro, and that's how many DVI and micro DVI ports looks like on your

computer.

By the way, don't focus too much on DVI.

As I said, it is a going away.

Obsolete technology now.

All right, then we have DisplayPort.

All right.

The interface is primarily used to connect a video source to a display device such as a computer monitor,

and it can also carry audio, USB and other forms of data.

DisplayPort were designed to replace VGA and DVI.

The interface is backward compatible with other interfaces such as HDMI and DVI, using either active

or passive adapters.

Now here is the DVI looks like on your computer or your laptop.

And here are the cable.

Both look the same again, doesn't matter which end of the cable that you pick to connect to either

side of your device.

Now it has a Mini DisplayPort as well.

Early versions of Mini DisplayPort can display the same maximum resolution as the original size DisplayPort.

The reason we had the mini one so it could be used on a smaller sized device is a mobile device.

But now the newer versions can carry more bandwidth and provide higher resolutions.

So here if you look closely, if you have the latest laptop, you will see a port will look something

like that.

And here is the cable, smaller size cable or DisplayPort.

And if you want to use the adapter, if you let's say if you have a computer that uses the regular standard

DisplayPort, you can connect to one side of it with that cable adapter and the other side with the

Mini DisplayPort.

All right.

Moving on to the USB-C, one of the fastest technology and the coolest one stands for universal serial

bus type C, same as USB-C that we had or we have been using in our computers.

But with the extension of Type-C, it is the most advanced technology that can be found on most of the

newer laptops and mobile devices.

If you have the most recent on the most newest computer laptop right now, I bet you you would have

that port on your computer.

Now, why do we use that?

USB-C is relatively new connector for delivering data and power to and from computing devices.

When you connect your mobile device to a USB-C computer, you can't transfer data, such as for video

and audio files up to 10 gigabyte per second a lot faster.

It is not like this the regular old, the USB.

It is a lot faster now.

USB 3.1 cables can deliver.

4K Ultra HD video and audio from your laptop, phone to phone or tablet to your HDTV and monitor, those

USB-C standards include both DisplayPort and HDMI.

So you will want to either a USB-C to HDMI, DisplayPort, DisplayPort or if you have a very new monitor,

USB-C to USB-C will be available, I am sure.

So you don't need an adapter?

It is only for those who has an older display, then you could use that adapter.

Now here is what it looks like.

Pay close attention if you have a laptop, in your words, a laptop or a computer, look at it and you

will see it looks like a rounded, sheer, smaller USB port.

The older USB-C, the regular USB port, is kind of like a square.

This one is rounded edges.

This is the cable that it comes with.

It carries the data, the video, the charging a lot faster than a regular USP.

Then comes the Thunderbolt.

The Thunderbolt or Thunderbolt T ports looks like the same as USB-C ports on your computer, and the

connector is physically the same from a plug in perspective.

Thunderbolt three lets you transfer data up to 40 gig per second.

That's a lot faster.

That's twice as fast as the 20 gig per second maximum throughput speed for the fastest USB Type-C ports.

Yes, USB-C port.

The latest version can carry 20 gig, but the Thunderbolt carries 40 gigs, so you connected to transfer

data a lot faster.

The display is much clearer, the resolution is a lot higher, and the charging off your device is going

to be a lot faster.

So this is how it looks like on your computer port.

Once again, this is same as USB-C Dash S. But if you look closely, you will see like a thundering

arrow, which is referring to as Thunderbolt as a label on that port, which will tell you that it is

four Thunderbolt charging or display.

All right.

So these were the few common display interfaces and cables that are being used nowadays.

So you should definitely pay close attention to this last slide because most likely, you will be using

and working with USB Type-C and Thunderbolt type of technology cables and interfaces.

From now on.