Hello again.

In this video we are going to cover another important computer hardware.

And that is hard disk drive.

Now, I got this definition from Wikipedia and it's very easy and self-explanatory.

And it says a hard disk drive, which is HDD, is an electromechanical data storage device that uses

magnetic storage to store and retrieve digital information using one or more rigid, rapidly rotating

disks.

And that is also called platters coated with magnetic material.

Now, to make it more simpler, a hard drive is a hardware component that stores all your digital content

and such as documents, printers, music video programs, applications and even operating systems.

Now hard drives can be external or internal, so it could be mounted inside of your computer.

Or if you need additional space for your disks, for your storage, then you could attach an external

hard disk to your computer.

Hard disk is a long term memory of your computer, whereas Ram is a short term.

So every time you start up a program, that program is actually saved in Ram, you make changes to that

program or you make changes to your document.

As soon as you close the document and you save it, it gets saved on your hard disk.

And it actually memory releases that from its memory.

So it's a it's a similar concept as in human brain that where you have a short term and long term memory.

If I ask you what is your second grade teacher, then you probably have to really think hard, Go to

your hard disk, drive in your head and retrieve them information.

You probably be lucky if you could put pull that information within a few seconds, but you're going

to have a hard time remembering it because it is saved somewhere back in the hard disk.

But if I ask you, what is your brother's name, then you will tell me right away because that is always

stays in your memory.

You use that name almost every day.

Now let's take a look at the the layout, the physical layout of our hard disk.

Now, if you go and open up your computer and you pull out your hard disk, you will see it is actually

an encasement.

It looks like a rectangular casing.

And when you open up that further down, you're going to see inside of this hard, hard disk.

Now, if you pick pay close attention.

This hard disk has four platters.

See right here.

One, two, three, four.

They look like exactly like a CDs that we have or DVDs, but they are stacked together.

So in this disk, we have four disks together and they are combined together with this middle piece

that's called Spindle.

Spindle allows these disks to rotate, spin, and then you have the slider, the head of which actually

reads the these disks.

So you could write and read through this head.

Okay.

Moving on to the next slide here.

We are actually drilling down to the actual platter how the data is saved.

Now, this entire disk that you see looks like a CD that's called Platter.

And right here in this example, we have two platters in the middle.

As we discussed.

This is a spindle that actually holds these platters and helps them to rotate.

Now, this right here is a disk sector.

This entire chunk right here is a disk sector.

This is the arm.

And the arm has this little tip in front of it, and that's the little head.

Now, if you notice each disk right here, right underneath the first disk, right underneath there

is another arm which reads the information or pulls or retrieve or write your data to the second disk.

Similarly, you see there is a third arm right here, which is actually sitting on your third disk,

which is doing the same thing.

It has a head and it is reading and writing.

So if you have three platters, then you're going to have three arms.

Now this is the track, so each disk has a long track, just like as if you are on a running track.

It has all its tracks now.

Each track on a disk has a sector right here.

Now this is a disk, entire disk sector, but this is a track sector.

Now inside of this track sector, this little blocks this little chunks that you see.

These are the actual files that you have saved on your computer.

Either it could be image file or video file or a regular text file, anything.

So they are saved little by little in chunks on onto these track sectors.

And if you are trying to save a file, too, it is possible that it could go to the second sector sorry,

second platter and the second arm will come into use to place that into the second sector.

So that's how hard disk works.

Now let's go and open up our computer and let's take a look at the actual disk from inside of our computer.

Okay.

So here we are.

You have a good understanding what a disk is and what is inside of a disk.

So when you open up a disk, you'll see there are.

Platters.

Each platter has a sector.

There is a head that reads right to those platters and so on which we covered.

Now it's time to look at that disk.

Where can we find that disk or hard disk inside of our computer?

All right.

So I am going to turn this around.

I already have the side panel of this computer open.

By the way, this time I'm using the wrist band to avoid the static.

And I'm going to use this pin, this clip, to attach it to somewhere that is metal.

So there is no static.

So disk, when you're going to look into the disk in the front of it.

You're going to see that right here.

It this is the CD Rom Drive, which is the drive where we put in the CD rom, but the disk has to be

somewhere underneath or on top of it.

So let's turn this thing around again.

See right here, I have these two disk slots.

Hard disk slots.

I'm going to open the bottom one.

There is this little latch here, a tab which you press it down and it opens or releases the handle.

So pull down the handle and simply pull out the tray.

So right here, it's actually empty insert for this disk.

If I wanted to add another disk to my computer, I do have another slot to add a disk, so my primary

disk is not here.

I could see that.

So I'm going to push this back in.

Then I'm going to open the top one and I'm pretty sure my main disk is right here on the top one.

So let's push the tab down, pull the lever down and pull it out.

Okay, Very good.

So the disc came out.

So this is how the disc looked like.

This is the encasement of the disc.

You could actually open this up.

If you look closely, you're going to notice it has these screws.

There is information about this disc as well.

It has the serial number, it has a PIN number.

It also tells you the size of your disc.

So right here, the size of the disc is 320 gig gigabytes.

So this is the disc.

If you wanted to open up, make sure you know how to put it back.

I don't recommend that you open up if you have a production or some important information saved on this

on this disc.

All right.

So that's pretty much about the disc.

I'll see you in the next lecture.