Hey, guys.

And welcome back.

The very first thing we should learn when we are talking about hardware is the Ram, which is the memory

of your computer.

Ram stands for random access memory.

The data stored in Ram can be accessed almost instantly, regardless of where in memory it is stored.

Therefore, it is very fast.

And by the way, that is why it has the word random in it.

Because no matter where the memory is stored, it is accessed randomly.

Ram allows your computer to perform many of its everyday tasks, such as loading applications, browsing

the internet, editing a spreadsheet or playing games.

Memory also allows you to switch quickly among these tasks, remembering where you are in one task when

you switch to another task.

So as a rule, remember the more memory you have, the better your computer will function.

All right.

Ram gives application a place to store and access data on a short term basis.

Meaning when you when when a computer shuts down, everything in Ram is flushed.

Nothing is saved.

If you wanted to save your documents or anything, when you when you click on on close.

That document is saved in hard disk and hard disk is our long term memory.

If your system has too little ram, it can be slow and sluggish.

And if you notice how you can notice this, your computer being slow is if you open up multiple applications

on your computer.

If you have a Windows computer, for example, you probably notice a spinning circle on your computer

that's just spinning and spinning.

That means that you have less memory.

Your memory is trying to load those applications, multiple applications at the same time, and it is

having a hard time to manage it.

Ram sizes comes in multiple of two's, for example, two, four, eight, 1632 gig and so on.

So.

As an example.

So let's say if I open up my Firefox right now, so if I go to my computer and click on Firefox, see

this window, this applications right now right here is actually loaded in my Ram.

My ram is showing this window.

So as soon as I close this window, it is gone from the Ram.

Same thing.

Let's say if I wanted to open up a spreadsheet, let's say Excel and I am typing something two, three,

four, five.

These are a few numbers that you just typing.

Now, this Excel sheet right now it is saved in Ram until I close it and save it.

So once you close it, for example, let's say you close it will ask you, hey, where do you want to

save this file?

I could go into the more option and say, You know what, save it on my desktop and name it whatever

that you want, and then you click on Save.

Now that spreadsheet is actually saved on your hard disk.

If you want to reopen it, it will reopen.

And while it is open, it will remain in memory.

Also, you as I said, you could actually switch between different applications.

For example, like we have these applications that are open right now.

So I have PowerPoint, I have Microsoft, Firefox, so Mozilla, Firefox, some other applications.

These are all the applications that I have open and running in my computer.

And right now they are in my Ram.

That is why it is so important for Ram as you could switch between any of these applications and it

comes right up.

See, that's what the beauty of Ram.

If you did not have a Ram and you are storing everything from disk, it will take a lot longer to perform

certain functions on your computer and your CPU will have a lot of trouble accessing that information

to compute.

So when you go and buy a computer for yourself, make sure it has enough memory to run certain tasks.

All right.

Another thing that you could do is you could check the performance of your Ram by looking at your computer.

So I am using Windows Computer.

So in Windows, when you go to your taskbar right here, I have a taskbar right here and you right click

on your taskbar and click on Task Manager.

Okay, this is going to open up this task manager window and here go to performance and you will notice

here is the CPU and here's the memory.

So if you go to memory, you will notice.

That I have total of 25.6GB of memory available and in use right now is only six gig.

It means that I have a lot of memory that I could use for my computer.

So as you can see, the memory usage, it's very low that is in use.

But if you see a spike right here that's hitting 32 giga memory, which I have right here, then it

means you need more memory for your computer and your programs or your functions that you're running

on.

Your computer will be very slow.