Hey beautiful people, you are getting into it and it is very important for you to understand what are

the different type of computers that are out there which you have to deal with.

The very first computer is the first personal computer.

PC In 1981, IBM introduced its first personal computer and they called it as IBM.

PC It is mostly for personal or individual use.

It is best for internet surfing, running small applications and playing games.

You can run Windows Linux or Mac as an operating system on your personal computers.

So then we have a desktops.

Basically, desktop is the same as PC, but when you take that PC and you put it on top of your desk,

it becomes a desktop.

Yes, it's that simple.

Then we have a laptop.

Similarly like desktop, you put on desk laptops actually go on top of your lap.

It is very convenient, very mobile.

You could take the laptop with you wherever you go and all you have to do is simply open up the laptop,

put it on your lap and perform any functions that you want.

A computer can offer.

Once again, desktop and laptops.

They are both personal computers.

All right, then we have the workstations.

A workstation is simply a desktop computer that has more powerful processor, additional memory, high

end graphics adapters and an enhanced capability for performing high end tasks.

Nowadays, these workstations are actually come in a desktop kind of form or a laptop.

Typically, big companies or corporate companies buy these workstations for their employees.

All right, then we have notebooks.

They are pretty much same as laptop.

However, notebooks are generally manufactured to be sleeker.

Smaller computer with screen sizes of 15in or less, typically weighing less than £5 and measuring less

than three inches.

Thick.

Notebooks keep their supreme lightweight portability advantage over laptops.

Now, if you are in a business of traveling where you have to travel a lot, then notebooks are the

best suited fit for you.

So you don't have to carry heavy weight computers with you.

All right.

So next one is the mobile handheld or computers.

PDA stands for Personal digital Assistant.

Now, if you remember a few years ago, we had those personal or PDA computers that were used to schedule

meetings or calls and very limited functionality.

But now these handheld devices is like computer on its own where you could actually connect to the Internet

and do or perform a lot of functions.

A handheld computer is a portable computer that is small enough to be held in one's hand.

Example of handheld computers are like smartphones, tablets, iPads and many other devices.

These computers are mostly used for very small applications.

All right.

Moving on to this server server is the term that you will learn as soon as you get into the corporate

world or you get a job in it.

Okay.

Let's understand what a server is.

In computer world, there is a client and there is a server computer, a client computer.

When it sends a request, server serves that request.

So.

As an example, like a web server, let's say if you go to dub, dub, dub, dot, Google.com, so your

computer in that case is a client and the computer, the Google computer, where it's going to connect.

That's a server.

Same thing.

If you're connecting your computer to a database, your computer is a client.

The database where that database is running is a server.

Server usually have powerful processes, a lot of memory and large hard drives.

Typically, a server is racked horizontally on a computer shelf at a data center.

Some of the big manufacturers of servers are like HP, Dell, Cisco, IBM and few others.

All right, then we have mainframes.

Now.

In the early days of computing, mainframes were huge computers that could fill in an entire room or

even a whole floor.

Yes, but as a computing power increases and computers, the mainframe became more like a server.

So nowadays, since the real estate is very important, these servers that mainframes that used to compute

a large amount of computations now that little computers are the servers that you have nowadays can

perform the same functionality as the mainframe.

All right, then we have a supercomputer.

This type of computer usually costs hundreds of thousands or even millions of dollars, although some

microcomputers are single computer systems just like one single server.

Most are composed of multi high performance computers working in parallel in a single system.

So you could stack a few computers together or join a few servers together to perform one single function

that becomes like a supercomputer.

So anyway, in this last slide, pay close attention definitely to the servers.

Servers are the ones that you're going to be working with in corporate IT when you're troubleshooting

or when you are managing these computers.