A wonderful people in this video.

We are going to open up our computer and I'm going to show you what our ram or memory looks like.

Where is it located inside of the computer and how we could remove or replace a memory module that's

inside of the computer.

By the way, those memories or rams, they are this thin little circuit boards that are installed over

the motherboard.

And they're also called DIMMs, which stands for dual in-line memory modules.

Okay.

So I have this HPC here.

I'm going to put it up right here so you will have a better look.

And in my PC right here it has the side which side panel which opens up with the side panel.

There is this latch right here and you lift the latch.

It opens the side panel.

Now, of course, it depends on your computer or the server that you're working on.

If you're working on a server level, usually they are flat and horizontal, so you have a latch on

top of the computer where you could open it up and remove the top and then you could locate the memory.

DIMMs Okay.

In this one, in my computer.

Let me go a little let me zoom in a little.

Okay.

Much better.

So let me come around and we'll go and take a look inside of our computer together.

So right here on the back, very back of this computer is our motherboard.

Right here is our CPU.

And right here is another slot for CPU.

If I wanted to upgrade.

These are the cards that we have for our network.

And right here you see this plastic.

This is where the memory or Ram is installed behind this plastic cover.

So now we're going to open up this cover.

There's this little tab right here.

I'm going to push it down and I'm going to take this out.

Okay.

So let me do a little zoom in more.

Okay.

So you see right here, these are the memory dims.

As you notice, I have three of them.

Each dim that I have is two gig.

So that makes my computer two plus two plus two six gig of Ram.

You see right here, These are the empty slots for my Ram.

If I wanted to upgrade my Ram because I need to run certain applications that require more memory,

then I could purchase these memory DIMMs and I could add them to these slots.

And of course, it is always recommended that you go with the same size of DIMMs that you already have

on your computer.

So if I have two, then I should go with two, two, two.

So six plus six, I will have 12 gig of memory.

Okay.

Now comes the time how we could take one out or replace one.

So you see right here each memory Dimm.

These have a little white tabs here.

One on the left, one on the right.

You have to push it down and push it down from the other side as well.

And then simply take out this memory.

Now this is the memory card or dimm.

And please make sure if you notice closely, it has this little groove here.

This is our little guide that when we are inserting this in, we are not inserting upside down or the

wrong way.

So that is why there is this little groove here.

This Dimm also have its serial number, the manufacturer and the size of this Dimm.

Now if you want to add or replace it, let's say for example, if it's a faulty dimm, then you could

get a new one.

And with the new one you could do the same thing.

All you have to do is align with the slot, start with the left corner and the right, and then push

it down a little bit on the left corner.

Once it's in there, all you have to do is simply push it in.

As soon as you push in, you're going to hear the clicking sound, which means these tabs, the left

tab and the right tab, they are snapped in and they are grabbing your memory modules.

So these this is how you replace a memory modules or ram in your computer.

Please make sure before you open up your computer, please make sure your computer is unplugged and

it's not connected to the power.

And then you could definitely try to locate where your memory is in your computer.

I'll see you in the next lecture.