Hi, in this video, we will talk about CPU GPU stands for graphical processing unit, and it actually

functions similar to CPU, but it handles the programs or more specifically graphical processing a lot

faster and parallel meaning simultaneously, it handles and many tasks at the same time.

Keep in mind you can run your computer without a GPU, but you cannot run a computer without a CPU.

GPU allows graphic programmers to create more interesting visual effects and realistic scenes with advanced

lighting and shadowing techniques.

Moreover, GPU to unlock new possibility not only in gaming or graphic world, but also in content creation,

machine learning, artificial intelligence and much, much more.

It is specifically designed to accelerate computer graphics workload.

Yes.

So if you know someone who is in gaming world or loved to play games or advanced level games, they

got to have a GPU in their computer, or they will find a way to add a GPU card into the computer.

So it does allow faster processing and the graphics of their computer games become lot crisper.

There are two types of GPUs.

One is integrated GPU, which looks a lot like a regular CPU.

If you open up your computer that has a GPU, you integrate it to your motherboard.

You might not be able to identify it because it will look a lot like a CPU, and usually it is sitting

next to the CPU.

It is a built into the motherboard and cannot be upgraded or replaced.

It does not come on its own separate card and is instead embedded alongside the CPU.

Now let's talk about the discrete GPU.

A discrete is a mounted on a graphic card that attaches onto a computer's expansion slot on the motherboard.

This kind of graphics card is replaceable, so it can be upgraded.

This way, your computer won't be obsolete.

The graphics card is like a smaller version of a motherboard with its own memory and cooling fan.

So the condition is your computer got to have an expansion slot on its motherboard available so you

could insert this card onto it.

But if it does not, then you pretty much out of luck.

You cannot put it inside of your computer, just like laptops, if you have a laptop and you want to

use a GPU.

Of course, you cannot open your laptop and insert this graphic card into it.

So what do you have to do then?

Then you could buy an external GPU.

Yes, there are many manufacturers who build external GPU that will help you and has your graphics are

for your computer.

So definitely find them out anyway.

That's pretty much about the GPU.

It's very simple.

The only difference between I would say the CPU and GPU is GPU specifically designed for you.

Graphical needs.
