Hey folks, we are on the topic of discussing computer hardware, so how can we forget CPU?

CPU stands for central processing unit and that is the most important component of a computer hardware.

It is a chip that sits on your motherboard and it is the brain of the computer which processes the instruction

that come from programs, the operating system or other components in your PC.

So whatever the instruction that you pass through your keyboard, your mouse or any external peripheral,

it actually carries it through memory and it is given to your CPU to process those instructions.

Now I wanted to also cover the socket and the core because a lot of people sorry, a lot of times people

actually mix up CPU with core with socket.

So let's take a look at what is a socket.

Now socket is nothing but a placeholder on your motherboard for your CPU.

So it's an actual socket on your motherboard where CPU resides.

Now your computer could have one socket or multiple sockets.

Next thing is core.

Core is a multiple CPU which sits on one single socket.

So that chip that you see that chip could have one CPU or could have two CPU.

When it has two CPU, then it is referred to as a core.

So two dual core or four core CPU.

Just like in the picture you see we have two sockets and each socket has a CPU which has four cores.

Now in other picture you'll see this is how the exact looks like and it has two square black dots which

are, which are representing core one and core two.

Now in the next slide to explain you a lot better how our CPU works in computer, I have put together

an example.

Let's say if someone asks you, Hey, what is two plus two?

Now, without thinking, without consulting with your brain, you're going to spit it out.

It's four.

You know why?

Because that is something tattooed in your mind is something burn into your mind that you don't need

any kind of processing to get that answer because that is something we've been hearing since we are

children.

So that is why you spit it out and you don't consult with your brain.

Now, what if someone asks you, hey, what is 35 plus 49?

Now that is where you're not going to ask.

Answer right away.

So what are you going to do?

You're going to start thinking and you're going to put these 35 plus 49 in your memory.

You're going to bring that up.

And in computer, the Ram is the one that brings that 35 plus 49 in the memory, then starts the computation.

The CPU comes in memory, says, hey, CPU, I have this one.

This this calculations to solve.

I want you help CPU says okay, hold that in the memory and let me do the calculation.

Then the calculation starts and says five plus nine is 14 and I'm going to carry put four here and carry

one up here.

Then one plus three is four and four plus four is eight.

So that is 84.

And that's how once it is done, you've done the calculations, the processing is completed, memory

is going to release that information and you're going to spit it out from your mouth.

That had, Hey, it is 84.

So that's exactly how our brain functions and how our CPU functions in a computer.

And that's the best comparison that I could give you.

And that will make you understand how CPU functions in a computer.

In the next lecture, I am going to open up the computer and we're going to take a tour and look at

how or where the CPU is in our computer.

Stay tuned.