Hello, boys and girls.

In this video, we are going to learn the most common computer connection that's been used lately to

connect other devices to a computer, and that is USB USB stands for universal serial bus and often

referred as plug and play.

The reason it is known as plug and play is because all you have to do is plug the cable to the port

and start working as using the device that you want to have connected with your computer.

So, as per Wikipedia, USB is an industry standard that establishes a specification for cable connectors

and protocols for connections, communication and power supply, interfacing between computers, peripherals

and other computers.

Now, in simple words, a USB connection is a standard connection between a personal computer, which

is your laptop or your desktop, and most of the other consumer electronic devices such as mouse keyboard,

speakers, storage, flash drives, printers, and many, many other peripheral devices that you wired

to connect to your computer.

So that is the standard that that's given.

Before that, there were so many different cables that were used with so many different devices.

If you wanted to connect keyboard, you would have to use a keyboard cable for a mouse.

It was different for printers, for flash drives, any external drives that you wanted to connect to

a computer.

You have to use different cables with your computer age.

But who was the main brain behind this technology?

Work, together with many tech companies and developed as USB.

In 1996, it has replaced interfaces and many other interfaces, such as serial ports and parallel ports.

And once again, these ports were the different ports that came with the different devices.

So if you if you're using Device A, you have to use its own cable or its own port.

All right.

One of the advantages of U.S. be connected devices is that the software driver is automatically installed

on your PC when connected.

Yes, that is the beauty.

Meaning if you have a, for example, a keyboard and you are wired to connect to your computer, then

when you connect to it automatically, it detects it installed as driver and it starts running right

away.

Same thing.

If you have a third party electronic device and you connect to it, you do not have to install it software

or driver.

That is why, once again, it is called plug and play, and I'm sure everyone has seen how it looks

like just to refresh your memory.

The port on your computer, your PC will look like this, and the cable that you would need both ends

are the same.

You would need that to connect to your port.

So that's what a USB device is used.

It was a revolutionary invention that has changed the technology completely.