Hello, everyone, and welcome back.

We have a good understanding of computer hardware, so I think it's time we should also know and learn

about hardware vendors and people or the companies that actually manufactures that hardware.

And the number one in line we have is Dell, EMC.

Dell is an American multinational computer technology company that develops, sells repairs and support

computers and related products and services.

It was founded by Dell Michael Dell in 1984.

Dell also acquired EMC, which was the storage company in 2000 2015.

A lot of our computers, workstations or laptops, they are also manufactured by Dell or HP.

But most of the computers that we see on the computer, on the corporate world, the servers, the stackable

servers are manufactured by Dell.

Then comes in HP.

HP stands for Hewlett-Packard.

It's an American multinational company headquartered in Palo Alto, California, that developed and

provided a wide variety of hardware components.

It merged with Compaq in 2002, and it was founded by David Packard, Bill Hewlett, in 1939.

That's why Hewlett, the last name of Bill and the last name of David Packard, they combine the last

names and created the company.

Hewlett Packard.

A lot of our servers in corporate world are actually manufactured by Hewlett Packard.

Then comes in the IBM.

IBM stands for International Business Machines Corporation, and it's American multinational company

headquartered in Armonk, New York, with Operation over 170 countries.

It was founded by Charles Ranlett Flint in 1911.

So IBM is one of the oldest computer companies in the world.

Okay, then we have the next one in line is Cisco.

Cisco Systems, Inc. is an American multinational technology company headquartered in San Jose, California.

In the center of Silicon Valley, Cisco develops manufactures and sells networking, mainly networking

and then computer compute hardware, software, telecommunication, computer equipment and other high

technology services and products.

So whenever you hear the word Cisco, you always think of networking devices like switches and routers

and firewalls.

But now Cisco has entered into the computer, the compute hardware or building the compute for corporate

world.

Okay, moving on.

Sorry I missed the last.

It was founded by Sandy Lerner and Leonard Bosack in 1984.

Okay.

Now moving on to Oracle.

It's again American Multinational Computer Technology Corporation, headquartered in Austin, Texas.

Oracle acquired Sun Microsystems in 2009, and it was founded by Larry Ellison, Bob Miner and Ed Oates

in 1977.

Sun Microsystems is another hardware company that actually manufactures own hardware, and it has its

own operating system, which was Solaris.

They run on Sparc initially, and now they also run on 64 bit operating systems.

Then next in line, Lenovo, Lenovo Group Limited, often shortened to Lenovo, is a Chinese multinational

technology company incorporated in Hong Kong, and it was founded by Liu Chuanzhi in 1984.

Hopefully I'm pronouncing it right, then comes in Hitachi.

Hitachi Limited is a Japanese multinational company headquartered in Chiyoda Chiyoda, Tokyo, Japan,

founded by Namihei Odaira in 1910, Hitachi is also very much involved and has one of the biggest share

in storage market.

Then we have Intel.

Intel Corporation is an American multinational corporation and technology company headquartered in Santa

California, Santa Carla, California.

It was founded by Gordon Moore and Robert Noyce in 1968.

Not only the hold, the biggest share in market, we know that Intel chips are very famous, but they

have started manufacturing high end servers as well.

So in corporate world, we do see a lot of computers, servers that are manufactured by Intel.

Anyway, please keep these companies in mind.

Once you entered the IT world, you will have to know these companies.

What kind of hardware do they manufactures?

What is the hardware models and series that they have in certain years and what do they have as a current

models?

What kind of power they come with.

So you're going to be dealing with a lot when you when it comes down to purchasing or getting your hardware

requirement and resource requirement.