Hey, guys.

In this video I wanted to talk about the antistatic wrist strap or sometimes people call it a wrist

band when we are dealing with the hardware and we have to replace the internal components of the computer.

We have to make sure that we wear this anti-static strap so we won't damage the internal parts of the

computer and how it happens.

Well, this anti-static strap, it actually prevents the damage to our computer by preventing the electrostatic

discharge, which is sometimes referred to as insured as ESD.

ESD is what is an ESD, first of all.

So ESD is like a transfer of a natural occurring current that's inside of our body to another surface.

So when this transfer happens, it could cause damage to our internal components of a computer.

So you probably, I'm sure everyone in their life have experienced that.

Sometimes when you walk on a carpet with your socks and then you reach a doorknob, you you get a static,

that's a static that actually generates inside of your body.

So when you have that type of static and you're working on the computer without this, yes, you could

seriously damage the internal components of the computer.

So it's very easy.

All you have to do is attach this strip where the Velcro is on your wrist, and then the other end of

this strap, which is right here, is a clip.

Then you should attach it to the any metal surface of your computer.

I usually attach it on the back, see, it has a metal surface, but if you have the computer open,

you could also attach where the encasement of the disk drive is.

That's where the strip goes for the metal surface too.

You could attach it there too.

It is a very, very safe and it will again, if you're working on a production server or in a corporate

environment, those hardware, the internal components of the computer are very expensive and you do

not want to take that your body current the static and transfer that to the inside of your computer

components.

So please make sure you buy this when you're going to start a job.

I'm very sure your employer will give you one of these to work on.

If you are dealing with replacing the computer hardware and if you want to try it out, it's not very

expensive.

It's cost me $3 USD, $3.

You could buy it and you could try it out for your for your lab computer or anything like that.

I'll see you in the next lecture.