Hello, everyone.

In this video, we are going to cover a very interesting topic, and that is, what is the difference

between 32 and 64 bit processor?

I'm sure a lot of people ask this question when they go buy a computer, but nowadays a lot of computers,

I would say most of the computers come in 64 bit processor as 32 bit is an older version or a older

model of computers.

All right.

So let's get into what is the difference to clarify, what's the confusion that we have A processor,

first of all, is the same as CPU, which stands for Central processing unit, which processes the instruction

that come from programs, the operating system or other components in your computer.

All right, So let's put it this way.

CPU, we know gets the unit of data or that information from Ram.

Ram is memory.

And when when it gets it, it processes it.

Now, if your computer is 32 bit processor, then it can only process two power of 32 memory addresses

and that equates to four GB of Ram.

So it means your computer cannot process more than four gig of data at a time.

All right.

Now in computers there is only binary.

We know that it's only zero and one.

Each one is considered a bit.

That means for one bit computing you get two possible values.

Two bit means four values.

Then at three bits you double that to eight.

All right, let me put it in a graphical way.

So the picture speaks a thousand words, right?

So we have our computer and we want our computer to do the computation of two plus two.

Now, there's one thing we do need to understand that there are eight bits in one byte and 102 4 or

1024 bytes in one kilobyte, 1024kB equal to one Meg, 1024 Meg equal to one gig and so on.

Now going back eight bits to one byte.

So two has eight bits, another two has eight bits.

So it's this is how it is right now sitting on your desk because computer doesn't understand any other

language but zero and one.

So when we do two plus two, it's basically going to do 00110010 plus 00110010.

And then from the disk, it's going to pull that information.

If it is saved, then it's going to hand it over to your memory.

Okay.

Memory.

If if it is four giga memory, it could actually capture the entire four gig of your data units and

it could hand that over to the CPU to process it.

Now, if your CPU again is 32 bit, then that memory cannot let CPU process anything more than four

gig.

It has to be equal or less than four gig of data.

That's what really a 32 versus 64 bit processor is.

Okay, Moving on to the next slide, we will look at the chart, which is.

Our values for our exponents.

So two to the zero value equals to one and two to the one equals to two, two to the two power equal

to four.

And this is the basic mathematics that we have learned when we were kids.

So that's the what we call an exponent value.

So you do two.

If it is two, then two times two.

If it is two to the power, two three, then two times two times two, then equals to eight and so on.

So if we keep going and keep going to two to the power 32 and put it as exponentially, then eventually

you're going to get the 32 bit worth 4.3 billion.

It means it could process 4.3 billion of data units at a time.

If it is a 32 bit processor.

Now, if it is a 64 bit processor, which is going to be two to the 64th power is worth well, 18 point

quintillion and change.

That's so much.

I cannot even translate it into how many gigabytes it will be.

So now your processor becomes so powerful that it could process so many of that data unit in a shot

and it could take that from your memory.

So let's usually it doesn't happen, but let's say if your memory has 60 sorry, eight gig and your

processor is 32 bit, it's not going to work because your processor can only handle four gig at a time.

If you want your computer to process more than four gigs of memory, then you need to have a 64 bit

processor.

All right.

So again, let's look at this.

This is the our value 4.3 billion when we divided it into divided by 1024, that equates to 419430 four

kilobytes.

Now, if you take that same value and divide it by 1024, that equates to 4096 megabyte.

If you take that same value 4096 and divide it by 1024, that equates to four gig.

And that's what the four gig is about.

The memory card.

If you have a four gig of memory card, then you could have 32 bit of processor.

But if you want a bigger or higher memory, then you cannot go with 32, you got to go with 64.

Let's look at the quick brief history of our processors, how they came into being.

The Intel 8080 chip in the 1970s supported eight bit of computing that's so low now.

In 1992, Window 3.1 was the first 16 bit desktop version of Windows.

Then came the AMD.

AMD shipped the first 64 bit desktop chip.

In 2003.

Apple made the Mac OS X version the ten snow leopard entirely on 64 bit in 2009.

And then moving on to smartphones.

The first smartphone with the 64 bit chip was iPhone 5 in 2014.

So as we're moving into the new eras, this processing speed is increasing the demand for running our

applications and those application requirements to have certain memory is increasing.

So that is why your 32 bit processor cannot actually accommodate that type of computation at one time.

So that is why all of our computers nowadays coming with 64 bit processor.